worksheet 9 
statistics

1. option C
2. option B
3. option B
4. option B
5. option C
6. option A
7. option C
8. option B
9. option C
10. option C
11. option A
12. option B

13.
The key difference between the t- and z-distributions is the standard normal or z-distribution assumes that you know the population standard deviation. 
The t-distribution is based on the sample standard deviation.

14. 
The t-distribution is similar to a normal distribution. It has a precise mathematical definition. Instead of diving into complex math, 
let’s look at the useful properties of the t-distribution and why it is important in analyses.
Like the normal distribution, the t-distribution has a smooth shape.
Like the normal distribution, the t-distribution is symmetric. If you think about folding it in half at the mean, each side will be the same.
Like a standard normal distribution (or z-distribution), the t-distribution has a mean of zero.
The normal distribution assumes that the population standard deviation is known. The t-distribution does not make this assumption.
The t-distribution is defined by the degrees of freedom. These are related to the sample size.
The t-distribution is most useful for small sample sizes, when the population standard deviation is not known, or both.
As the sample size increases, the t-distribution becomes more similar to a normal distribution.

15.
According to the central limit theorem, the sampling distribution of a statistic (like a sample mean) will follow a normal distribution, 
as long as the sample size is sufficiently large. Therefore, when we know the standard deviation of the population, we can compute a z-score, 
and use the normal distribution to evaluate probabilities with the sample mean.

But sample sizes are sometimes small, and often we do not know the standard deviation of the population. 
When either of these problems occur, statisticians rely on the distribution of the t statistic (also known as the t score), whose values are given by:

t = [ x - μ ] / [ s / sqrt( n ) ]

where x is the sample mean, μ is the population mean, s is the standard deviation of the sample, and n is the sample size. 
The distribution of the t statistic is called the t distribution or the Student t distribution.